---
author: 'Ikenna Okpala'
comments: true
date: 2007-07-17 15:31:00
layout: post
slug: an-entity
title: An Entity
wordpress_id: 15
categories:
- JPA
---

An **Entity**  defines an abstract type of object, the instances of which can be mapped into a relational table, ie a table containing a header consisting of a set of attributes, and a body consisting of a variable set of tuples (rows with values for the attributes).

Any concrete or abstract thing of interest, including associations among things; for example, a person, object, event, or process that is of interest in the context under consideration, and about which data may be stored in a database.
<!--more-->

An **Entity** is something that has a distinct, separate existence, though it need not be a material existence. In particular, abstractions and legal fictions are usually regarded as entities. In general, there is also no presumption that an entity is animate.

it is useful for managing all the information about a client, during the whole lifetime of the client, ie it has to keep this information also between successive shutdowns and reboots of the system. So, it has a persistent state and a persistent identity, which are both visible to its clients.

An **Entity** is a thing of significance, either real or conceptual, about which the business or system being modeled needs to hold information. Sample entities: EMPLOYEE, DEPARTMENT, CAR, etc. Each entity in a ERD (**Entity Relationship Diagrams**) generally correspond to a physical table on database level.
